[doc] Adds ABI page to sphinx doc. (#2628)
paparazzi/paparazzi: doc/sphinx/source/developer_guide/abi.rst

General Idea
------------

* Give an easy way to allow software components to exchange data with minimum delay nor execution overhead.
* The components don't need to know each other, they only need the message format.
* Each subscriber set a callback function that will be called when new data are sent.

.. warning:: This middleware is **NOT** thread safe. Threads are not widely used in Paparazzi but remember this if you use them.

Message definition
------------------

The messages are described in ``conf/abi.xml`` analoguous to other messages in paparazzi. Name are unique, IDs starts from 0. "type" field should be a real C type.

.. code-block:: xml

    <class name="airborne">
     <message name="DATA" id="0">
      <field name="a" type="float"/>
      <field name="b" type="struct bla"/>
     </message>
     ...
    </class>

Airborne code for subscriber
----------------------------

Include header and declare an ``abi_event`` as a global ``static`` variable (but **not** ``const``). Write the callback function with the proper prototype, matching the message.

.. code-block:: C

    #include "subsystems/abi.h"

    static abi_event ev;

>     void data_cb(uint8_t sender_id, const float * a, const struct bla * b) {

Reviewer: I checked in the code, there is a mistake here (and in the wiki as well). The fields are not necessarily pointers, unless typed like that in the XML file (this is a difference from pprzlink where all fields are turned to pointers). And they are not `const` either (all that was the original designed, but changed later).
So the callback should be:
```
void data_cb(uint8_t sender_id, float a, struct bla b)
```
Maybe it is worth adding a extra `c` field showing a pointer to something
```
<field name="c" type="uint32_t */>
void data_cb(uint8_t sender_id, float a, struct bla b, uint32_t * c)
```

Author: Rhaa, I noticed it this morning, I corrected it, but this one flew under the radar :smile: 
For the pointer example, I imagine users will see the examples of other messages using pointers, and in the wort case, the compiler error will be clear enough ?

Author: Well, you are right, an example is better if we you to have a good doc. This is done.

    };
    typedef struct abi_struct abi_event;

    /** Macros for linked list */
    #define ABI_FOREACH(head,el) for(el=head; el; el=el->next)
    #define ABI_PREPEND(head,add) { (add)->next = head; head = add; }

The generated code in ``var/include/abi_messages.h`` for the message defined above will look like this:

.. code-block:: C

    // Code generated in var/include/abi_messages.h
    #include "subsystems/abi_common.h
    // Message IDs
    #define ABI_DATA_ID 0
    
    // Array and linked list
    #define ABI_MESSAGE_NB <highest id of the messages in airborne class + 1>
    ABI_EXTERN abi_event* abi_queues[ABI_MESSAGE_NB]; // Magic trick to avoid generating .c file

    // Callbacks
    typedef void (*abi_callbackDATA)(uint8_t sender_id, float a, struct bla b); // Specific callback for DATA message (arguments are const to prevent modifying them)

    // Bind and Send for each messages
    static inline void AbiBindMsgDATA(uint8_t sender_id, abi_event * ev, abi_callbackDATA cb) {
      if (abi_queues[ABI_BARO_ABS_ID] == ev) return;
      ev->id = sender_id;
      ev->cb = (abi_callback)cb;
      ABI_PREPEND(abi_queues[ABI_BARO_ABS_ID],ev);
    }

>     static inline void AbiSendMsgDATA(uint8_t sender_id, float a, struct bla b) {

Reviewer: this was correct :)
update if you add the `c` field.

.. developer_guide abi

=============
ABI messaging
=============

Paparazzi use a custom publish/subscribe middleware to exchange data between software components named ``ABI``.

.. note:: This middleware was named *ABI* for *AirBorne Ivy*

General Idea
------------

* Give an easy way to allow software components to exchange data with minimum delay nor execution overhead.
* The components don't need to know each other, they only need the message format.
* Each subscriber set a callback function that will be called when new data are sent.

.. warning:: This middleware is **NOT** thread safe. Threads are not widely used in Paparazzi but remember this if you use them.

Message definition
------------------

> The messages are described in ``conf/abi.xml`` analoguous to other messages in paparazzi. Name are unique, IDs starts from 0. "type" field should be a real C type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The messages are described in ``conf/abi.xml`` analoguous to other messages in paparazzi. Name are unique, IDs starts from 0. "type" field should be a vald C type or pointer.
```

    #include "subsystems/abi_common.h
    // Message IDs
    #define ABI_DATA_ID 0
    
    // Array and linked list
    #define ABI_MESSAGE_NB <highest id of the messages in airborne class + 1>
    ABI_EXTERN abi_event* abi_queues[ABI_MESSAGE_NB]; // Magic trick to avoid generating .c file

    // Callbacks
    typedef void (*abi_callbackDATA)(uint8_t sender_id, float a, struct bla b, struct foo * c); // Specific callback for DATA message (arguments are const to prevent modifying them)

    // Bind and Send for each messages
    static inline void AbiBindMsgDATA(uint8_t sender_id, abi_event * ev, abi_callbackDATA cb) {
      if (abi_queues[ABI_BARO_ABS_ID] == ev) return;
      ev->id = sender_id;
      ev->cb = (abi_callback)cb;
      ABI_PREPEND(abi_queues[ABI_BARO_ABS_ID],ev);
    }

    static inline void AbiSendMsgDATA(uint8_t sender_id, float a, struct bla b, struct foo * c) {
     // Call all callback functions
     abi_event* e;
     ABI_FOREACH(abi_queues[ABI_DATA_ID],e) {
      if (e->id == ABI_BROADCAST || e->id == sender_id) { // call function only if selected source or broadcast address
       abi_callbackDATA cb = (abi_callbackDATA)(e->cb); // C black magic

>        cb(sender_id, a, b);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       cb(sender_id, a, b, c);
```

.. developer_guide abi

=============
ABI messaging
=============

Paparazzi use a custom publish/subscribe middleware to exchange data between software components named ``ABI``.

.. note:: This middleware was named *ABI* for *AirBorne Ivy*

General Idea
------------

* Give an easy way to allow software components to exchange data with minimum delay nor execution overhead.
* The components don't need to know each other, they only need the message format.
* Each subscriber set a callback function that will be called when new data are sent.

> 

Reviewer: maybe add a note that the callbacks are not thread-safe (when applicable)

Message definition
------------------

> The messages are described in ``conf/abi.xml`` analoguous to other messages in paparazzi. Name are unique, IDs starts from 0. "type" field should be a real C type. Field name might be useless.

Reviewer: maybe not needed to tell that field name is not required, as it is probably cleaner to define it ?

Author: that also what I thought

.. code-block:: xml

    <class name="airborne">
     <message name="DATA" id="0">
      <field name="a" type="float"/>
      <field name="b" type="struct bla"/>
     </message>
     ...
    </class>

Airborne code for subscriber
----------------------------

> Include header and declare an ``abi_event`` as a global variable. Write the callback function with the proper prototype, matching the message.

Reviewer: specify that `abi_event ` variables can also be `static` (but not `const`)

Author: Done, but is this not the default behavior in C?

.. code-block:: C

    #include "subsystems/abi.h"

    abi_event ev;

    void data_cb(uint8_t sender_id, const float * a, const struct bla * b) {
     // do something here
    }

In the initialization function (or later) call the binding function for the message you want to receive.

.. code-block:: C

    AbiBindMsgDATA(ABI_BROADCAST, &ev, data_cb);

The first parameter is the sender ID you want to receive the message from.

* ``ABI_BROADCAST`` is used to receive messages from all senders.
* ``ABI_DISABLE`` disable the callback (it will never be called).
* Senders IDs can be found in the file ``sw/airborne/subsystems/abi_sender_ids.h``

The second parameter is a pointer to the global ``abi_event`` you declared. This variable **can't** be reused for another bind. You must declare one abi_event per bind.

The last parameter is your callback.

> 

Reviewer: add a note to tell that the "module creator" can help to prepare bindings when creating a new module ?

.. code-block:: C

    float var = 2.;
    struct bla s;
    AbiSendMsgDATA(SENDER_ID, &var, &s);

Replace ``SENDER_ID`` by your sender ID defined in ``sw/airborne/subsystems/abi_sender_ids.h``.

Your sender ID identifier should be constructed as the concatenation of the name of the message and the name of your module, suffixed with ``_ID``.

.. admonition:: example

    A good sender ID for a module ``toto`` sending the message ``DATA`` may be ``DATA_TOTO_ID``

.. warning::

    The values 0 and 255 are reserved for ``ABI_DISABLE`` and ``ABI_BROADCAST`` and thus shall not be used.
    
    You must also avoid using an ID already used to send the same message type.

Code generation
---------------

The generated code will be in ``var/include/abi_messages.h`` and include some structure definition from ``sw/airborne/subsystems/abi_common.h`` (``sw/airborne/subsystems/abi.h`` is a convenience header that only includes ``var/include/abi_messages.h``). Bind and Send functions are generated, as well as callback type definition. A linked list is used to store the binded callbacks for each message. The head of the list is in an array to allow a fast access. 

> 

Reviewer: for interested people, also give the link to the generator in `sw/tools/generators`

Author: Done

> 

Reviewer: Also add a "in depth" section (or subsections of code gen) with the generated code corresponding to the example and how to enable it in a custom code (http://wiki.paparazziuav.org/wiki/ABI#Airborne_code_for_main_AP) ?
